README.md, before:

# Discord Cloud Storage

This project uses discord as a form of cloud storage  
It uses [axum](https://crates.io/crates/axum) for the backend api, and [react](https://react.dev) for the front end

## Prerequisites

First of all you need to download [rust](rust-lang.org/tools/install), [nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en/download) and finally you need to download [postgresql](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) and create a database using the [psql](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html#:~:text=psql%20is%20a%20terminal-based,or%20from%20command%20line%20arguments.) shell, with the following command

### Make the postgresql database

While in the [psql](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html#:~:text=psql%20is%20a%20terminal-based,or%20from%20command%20line%20arguments.) shell run the following command
```sql
CREATE DATABASE databasename;
```
**Note**: Make sure to change the `databasename` to the name of the database you want it to be

### Make the needed directories

And you also need to make a uploads and uploads/chunks directory with this command (works in linux, macos and windows)  
First navigate to the directory of the repo

```sh
$ cd discord-cloud-storage
```

Then make the needed directories

```sh
mkdir uploads
```
```sh
mkdir uploads/chunks
```

### Make a Secrets.toml

To keep stuff private, and easy to use, I decided to use a Secrets.toml  
It fetches the data needed from there  
So go ahead and make a **Secrets.toml** file in the root directory of the project
It should have these fields

```toml
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://username:password@localhost:5432/databasename"
# The url is formatted like above
BOT_TOKEN="Your discord bot token"
CHANNEL_ID="Channel ID to upload the files to as a form of storage"
```

## To run on linux, macos and windows

### Run the backend

You can build and run it with two simple commands  
First of all you need to change directory into the directory of the repository

```sh
$ cd discord-cloud-storage
```

Then you have to run the release build with this command

```sh
$ cargo run -- --release
```

### Run the frontend

Open a new terminal       
Then build and run it with three simple commands  
First of all you need to change directory into the directory of the repo then the frontend directory

```sh
$ cd discord-cloud-storage/frontend
```

Then you have to install the dependancies and run the release build with this command

```sh
$ npm install
```
```sh
$ npm run build
```
After you've ran the release build, follow the instructions it gives     
**Note:** if it gives an error, try installing the react-scripts dependency globally with this command

```sh
$ npm i -g react-scripts
```



## To use it

Make sure you've set it up alright and have the backend and frontend running  
Then Navigate to http://127.0.0.1:3000

### To upload a file

To upload a file, go to the top right of the table, and click on the `Choose File` button  
Once you've chosen the file you want to upload, click on the `Upload File` button

- **Warning**: Once you've clicked on the `Upload File` button, don't refresh the page, as it will interrupt the uploading process and might cause the files to be left in your uploads/chunks, which won't be good for our storage  
  You'll know that the uploading process, when you'd either, see in the console for the backend `Successfully sent files`  
  Or when you'd see the file you just uploaded, in the right side of the website where, the list of the uploaded files is at

### To download a file

To download a file, go to the table, where you should see the list of uploaded files, and click on the `Download File` button, which is in the `Actions` column, then it will process the chunks by downloading them, and reassembling them

- **Warning**: Again once you've clicked on the `Download File` button, don't refresh the page, for the same reasons stated in the [`To upload a file`](#to-upload-a-file) section

### To delete a file

And finally, to delete a file, go to the same place you went to in the [`To download a file`](#to-download-a-file) section, and this time click on the `Delete File` button, then it will delete the file from database, hence deleting it from the file list

Commit message:

Modified the frontend to show if your files are encrypted or not, and changed some stuff in the backend

README.md, after:

# Discord Cloud Storage

This project uses discord as a form of cloud storage  
It uses [axum](https://crates.io/crates/axum) for the backend api, and [react](https://react.dev) for the front end

## Prerequisites

First of all you need to download [rust](rust-lang.org/tools/install), [nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en/download) and finally you need to download [postgresql](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) and create a database using the [psql](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html#:~:text=psql%20is%20a%20terminal-based,or%20from%20command%20line%20arguments.) shell, with the following command

### Make the postgresql database

While in the [psql](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/app-psql.html#:~:text=psql%20is%20a%20terminal-based,or%20from%20command%20line%20arguments.) shell run the following command

```sql
CREATE DATABASE databasename;
```

**Note**: Make sure to change the `databasename` to the name of the database you want it to be

### Make the needed directories

And you also need to make a uploads and uploads/chunks directory with this command (works in linux, macos and windows)  
First navigate to the directory of the repo

```sh
$ cd discord-cloud-storage
```

Then make the needed directories

```sh
mkdir uploads
```

```sh
mkdir uploads/chunks
```

### Make a Secrets.toml

To keep stuff private, and easy to use, I decided to use a Secrets.toml  
It fetches the data needed from there  
So go ahead and make a **Secrets.toml** file in the root directory of the project
It should have these fields

```toml
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://username:password@localhost:5432/databasename"
# The url is formatted like above
BOT_TOKEN="Your discord bot token"
CHANNEL_ID="Channel ID to upload the files to as a form of storage"
ENCRYPTION_KEY="key"
#Put in any encryption key just cant be bigger than 32 letters
ENCRYPTION="true or false"
# Put in if you want to encrypt your files or not
# Either true or false
```

## To run on linux, macos and windows

### Run the backend

You can build and run it with two simple commands  
First of all you need to change directory into the directory of the repository

```sh
$ cd discord-cloud-storage
```

Then you have to run the release build with this command

```sh
$ cargo run -- --release
```

### Run the frontend

Open a new terminal  
Then build and run it with three simple commands  
First of all you need to change directory into the directory of the repo then the frontend directory

```sh
$ cd discord-cloud-storage/frontend
```

Then you have to install the dependancies and run the release build with this command

```sh
$ npm install
```

```sh
$ npm run build
```

After you've ran the release build, follow the instructions it gives  
**Note:** if it gives an error, try installing the react-scripts dependency globally with this command

```sh
$ npm i -g react-scripts
```

## To use it

Make sure you've set it up alright and have the backend and frontend running  
Then Navigate to http://127.0.0.1:3000

### To upload a file

To upload a file, go to the top right of the table, and click on the `Choose File` button  
Once you've chosen the file you want to upload, click on the `Upload File` button

- **Warning**: Once you've clicked on the `Upload File` button, don't refresh the page, as it will interrupt the uploading process and might cause the files to be left in your uploads/chunks, which won't be good for our storage  
  You'll know that the uploading process, when you'd either, see in the console for the backend `Successfully sent files`  
  Or when you'd see the file you just uploaded, in the right side of the website where, the list of the uploaded files is at

### To download a file

To download a file, go to the table, where you should see the list of uploaded files, and click on the `Download File` button, which is in the `Actions` column, then it will process the chunks by downloading them, and reassembling them

- **Warning**: Again once you've clicked on the `Download File` button, don't refresh the page, for the same reasons stated in the [`To upload a file`](#to-upload-a-file) section

### To delete a file

And finally, to delete a file, go to the same place you went to in the [`To download a file`](#to-download-a-file) section, and this time click on the `Delete File` button, then it will delete the file from database, hence deleting it from the file list
